[master < T164-MAGE] Add temporal graph networks documentation (#348)
memgraph/docs: mage/query-modules/python/temporal-graph-networks.md

---
id: temporal-graph-networks
title: temporal_graph_networks
sidebar_label: temporal_graph_networks
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

export const Highlight = ({children, color}) => (
  <span
    style={{
      backgroundColor: color,
      borderRadius: '2px',
      color: '#fff',
      padding: '0.2rem',
    }}>
    {children}
  </span>
);

> [![docs-source](https://img.shields.io/badge/source-node2vec_online-FB6E00?logo=github&style=for-the-badge)](https://github.com/memgraph/mage/blob/main/python/tgn.py)

Reviewer: Fix badge, showing node2vec_online

## Abstract

> The **temporal_graph_networks (TGNs)** is a **[graph neural network (GNN)](https://distill.pub/2021/gnn-intro/)** method on dynamic graphs. 

Reviewer 2: Consider rewriting this; I've left a comment at the other place this sentence is found

networks (GCN)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1609.02907.pdf)** introduced by *Kipf et al*, followed by **[GraphSAGE](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1706.02216.pdf)** introduced by *Hamilton et al*, and in recent years new
method was presented which introduces **attention mechanism** to graphs, known as **[Graph attention networks (GAT)](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1710.10903.pdf?ref=https://githubhelp.com)**, by *Veličković
et al*. The last two methods offer a great possibility for inductive learning. But they haven't been specifically developed
to handle different events occurring on graphs, such as **node features updates**, **node deletion**, **edge deletion**
and so on. These events happen regularly on **real-world** examples such as **[Twitter network](https://twitter.com/memgraphmage)**, 
where users update their profile, delete their profile or just unfollow another user.

In their work, Rossi et al introduced to us [Temporal graph networks](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.10637) which presents a great possibility to do graph machine
learning on a stream of data, use-case occurring more often in recent years.

### About query module
What we have covered in this module

>   * **link prediction** - train your **TGN** to predict new **links/edges** and **node classification** - predict labels of nodes from graph structure and **node/edge** features

Author: It's okay this way. I mention link prediction and node classification in one package.

  * **graph attention layer** embedding calculation and **graph sum layer** embedding layer calculation
  * **mean** and **last** as message aggregators
  * **mlp** and **identity(concatenation)** as message functions
  * **gru** and **rnn** as memory updater
  * **uniform** temporal neighborhood sampler
  * **memory** store and **raw message store**

as introduced by **[Rossi et al](https://emanuelerossi.co.uk/)**.

> Following means **you** can use **TGN** to be able to **predict edges** or  to perform **node classification** tasks, with **graph attention layer** or **graph sum layer**, by using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The above means **you** can use **TGN** to **predict edges** or perform **node classification** tasks, with **graph attention layer** or **graph sum layer**, by using
```

either **mean** or **last** as message aggregator, **mlp** or **identity** as message function, and finally  **gru** or **rnn** as memory updater.

In total that gives *you* **2\*2\*2\*2\*2 options**, in total of **32** options to explore on your graph :smile: 

> To start exploring our module, **[github/memgraph/mage](https://github.com/memgraph/mage)** and start exploring our implementation, or even better, jump to 

Reviewer: This is written a bit unclear

> **[download page](https://memgraph.com/download)**, download **Memgraph Platform** and fire up **TGN**. We have prepared **Amazon product-item** dataset on which you 

Reviewer: What is product-item?

Author: user-item should be

> **[download page](https://memgraph.com/download)**, Download **Memgraph platform** and start exploring **TGN**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**[download page](https://memgraph.com/download)**, download **Memgraph Platform** and start exploring **TGN**
```

What is **not** implemented in the module:

>   * **node update/deletion events** since they occur very rarely - although we have prepared a terrain

Reviewer 2: What's a terrain here?

  * **edge deletion** events 
  * **time projection** embedding calculation and **identity** embedding calculation since author mentions 
    they perform very poorly on all datasets - although it is trivial to add new layer

> What we **believe** we offer instead of authors implementation from **[twitter-research GitHub repo](https://github.com/twitter-research/tgn)**:

Reviewer: I would remove this paragraph, when working on a solution for developers we need to be certain and not believ, which we are currently not.

Author: I am 99% sure they have a bug, but as you can't be 100% sure, I will remove it 👍🏻

        
        self._process_current_batch(
            sources, destinations, node_features, edge_features, edge_idxs, timestamps
        )

```
Our `torch.nn.Module` is organized as follows:
  * processing previous batches - if you follow *[research paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.10637)* this will include a new calculation of messages collected for each node in the form of 
    **message function**, aggregation of messages for each node in form of **message aggregator** and finally updating of each of the node's memory
    with **memory updater**
  * afterward we create a computation graph used by **graph attention layer** or **graph sum layer**
  * final step includes processing of current batch, creating new **interaction or node events**, updating **raw message store** with new **events**

Process repeats as we get new edges in batch, and after a batch is filled, we forward new edges again to **TGN** and so on...

:::info

This **MAGE** module is still in its early phase. We intended its use for only **learning** activities. The problem 
with the current module is that we expect **you** to know when your stream will end so you can switch **TGN** mode

> from **train** to **eval**. After you do a switch, all incoming edges will be used for only **evaluation** and not

Reviewer 2: I would phrase this in the terms of the module only supporting learning so far as evaluation needs to be switched on manually.

Author: No, this is okay in my opinion. We need to tell users what is implemented and what can be used.

| Trait               | Value                                                          |
| ------------------- |----------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Module type**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**module**</Highlight>              |
| **Implementation**  | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**Python**</Highlight>              |
| **Graph direction** | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**directed**</Highlight>            |
| **Edge weights**    | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**weighted/unweighted**</Highlight> |
| **Parallelism**     | <Highlight color="#FB6E00">**sequential**</Highlight>          |

## Procedures

> ### `set_params( params)`

Reviewer: whitespace on params

#### Input:

* `params: mgp.Map` ➡ dictionary conataining following parameters:

>   * `learning_type: str` ➡ `self_supervised` or `supervised` depending on if you want to predict edges or node labels

Reviewer: Write default values in brackets as in other modules.

## Procedures

### `set_params(learning_type, batch_size, num_of_layers, layer_type, memory_dimension, time_dimension, num_edge_features, num_node_features, message_dimension, num_neighbors, edge_message_function_type, message_aggregator_type, memory_updater_type, num_attention_heads, learning_rate, weight_decay)`

#### Input:

> * `learning_type: str` ➡ "self_supervised" or "supervised" depending on if you want to predict edges or node labels

Reviewer: Try bold or italic, or place variables in the brackets, so they are easily visible

  * `message_dimension: int` ➡ dimension of message, only used if you use MLP as message function type, otherwise ignored
  * `num_neighbors: int` ➡ number of sampled neighbors
  * `edge_message_function_type: str` ➡ message function type, `identity` for concatenation or `mlp` for projection
  * `message_aggregator_type: str` ➡ message aggregator type, `mean` or `last`
  * `memory_updater_type: str` ➡ memory updater type, `gru` or `rnn`
  * `num_attention_heads: int` ➡ **[OPTIONAL]** number of attention heads used if you define `graph_attn` as layer type

>   * `learning_rate: float` ➡ **[OPTIONAL]** - learning rate for optimizer

Reviewer: Try OPTIONAL as italic, not bold, it looks like too much on my screen

* `message_dimension : int` ➡ dimension of message, only used if you use MLP as message function type, otherwise ignored
* `num_neighbors : int` ➡ number of sampled neighbors
* `edge_message_function_type: str` ➡ message function type, "identity" for concatenation or "mlp" for projection
* `message_aggregator_type: str` ➡ message aggregator type, "mean" or "last"
* `memory_updater_type: str` ➡ memory updater type, "gru" or "rnn"
* `num_attention_heads: int` ➡ number of attention heads used if you define "graph_attn" as layer type
* `learning_rate: float` ➡ learning rate for optimizer
* `weight_decay: float` ➡ weight decay used in optimizer

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.set_params("self_supervised", 200, 2, "graph_attn", 100, 100, 20, 20, 100, 10, "identity", "last", "gru", 1) YIELD *;
```

### `update(edges)`

#### Input:

> * `edges: mgp.List[mgp.Edges]` ➡ list of edges to preprocess, and if current batch size is big enough use for training or evaluation

Reviewer: Explain that these are created edges

time an edge is added to the graph, the trigger calls the procedure and makes an
update.

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER create_embeddings ON --> CREATE BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL tgn.update(createdEdges) RETURN 1;
```

The second option is to add all the edges and then call the algorithm with them:

```cypher
MATCH (n)-[e]->(m)
WITH COLLECT(e) as edges
CALL tgn.update(edges) RETURN 1;
```

### `get()`

#### Output:

* `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ vertex in Memgraph database
* `embedding: mgp.List[float]` ➡ low-dimensional representation of node in form of graph embedding

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `set_eval()`

With this function, you change the mode of **temporal graph networks** to `eval` mode. Any new edges which arrive
will **not** be used to **train** the module, but to **evaluate**.

If you know when the stream will end, it is good to change the mode to "eval" and test how your model performs. 
Once the stream finishes, a good option is to run a few training epochs to get the best results.

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.set_eval() YIELD *;
```

### `get_results()`

#### Output:

> * `epoch_num=mgp.Number` ➡ number of `train` or `eval` epochs

Reviewer: It's `:` and not `=`, also add default

### `get_results()`

#### Output:

* `epoch_num=mgp.Number` ➡ number of epoch in which "training" or "evaluation" was done
* `batch_num=mgp.Number` ➡ number of batch inside of epoch in which "training" or "evaluation" was done
* `batch_process_time=mgp.Number` ➡ time needed to process batch 
* `accuracy=mgp.Number` ➡ mean average precision on current batch

> * `accuracy_type=str` ➡ type of MAP performed, "train" or "eval"

Reviewer 2: Reformat the type hints in the `result: type` format for consistency.

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get_results() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

> ### `process_epochs(num_epochs)`

Reviewer: This method is not explained well, please add description of method below this title

> ### `train_and_eval(num_epochs)`

Reviewer: I would love to have this explained in the above section. It's more useful than having so long section of implementation details. Having both is fine too

    edge_idxs: np.array
    node_features: Dict[int, torch.Tensor]
    edge_features: Dict[int, torch.Tensor]
    batch_size: int
    labels: np.array

```

#### Processing one batch

```python
        self._process_previous_batches()

        graph_data = self._get_graph_data(
            np.concatenate([sources.copy(), destinations.copy()], dtype=int),
            np.concatenate([timestamps, timestamps]),
        )

        embeddings = self.tgn_net(graph_data)

        ... process negative edges in a similar way
        
        self._process_current_batch(
            sources, destinations, node_features, edge_features, edge_idxs, timestamps
        )

```
Our `torch.nn.Module` is organized as follows:
  * processing previous batches - if you follow the *[research paper](https://arxiv.org/abs/2006.10637)* this will include a new calculation of messages collected for each node in the form of 
    **message function**, aggregation of messages for each node in form of **message aggregator** and finally updating of each of the node's memory
    with **memory updater**
  * afterward we create a computation graph used by **graph attention layer** or **graph sum layer**

>   * final step includes processing of current batch, creating new **interaction or node events**, updating **raw message store** with new **events**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * the final step includes processing of the current batch, creating new **interaction** or **node events**, and updating the **raw message store** with new **events**
```

The process repeats: as we get new edges in a batch, the batch files, and the new edges are forwarded to the **TGN** and so on.

:::info

This **MAGE** module is still in its early phase. We intend using it only for **learning** activities. The current state 
of the module is that you need to manually switch the TGN mode to `eval`. After the switch, incoming edges will be used for **evaluation** only. 

> If you wish to make it production-ready because you like what you see :smile: be sure to either

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you wish to make it production-ready because you like what you see :smile: make sure to either
```

| node_features_property 	            | String 	     | `features`	        | name of features property on nodes from which we read features 	|
| edge_features_property 	            | String 	     | `features` 	        | name of features property on edges from which we read features	|
| node_label_property 	                | String 	     | `label` 	            |  name of label property on nodes from which we read features	|

#### Usage:

```cypher
 CALL tgn.set_params({learning_type:'self_supervised', batch_size:200, num_of_layers:2, 
                      layer_type:'graph_attn',memory_dimension:20, time_dimension:50, 
                      num_edge_features:20, num_node_features:20, message_dimension:100, 
                      num_neighbors:15, edge_message_function_type:'identity',
                      message_aggregator_type:'last', memory_updater_type:'gru', num_attention_heads:1});
```

### `update(edges)`
This function scrapes data from edge, including `edge_features` and `node_features` if they exist. It also fills up the batch, and once the batch is ready **TGN** will process
batch, and be ready to accept new incoming edges.
#### Input:

> * `edges: mgp.List[mgp.Edges]` ➡ list of edges that arrive in a stream to `Memgraph` database to preprocess. If a batch is full, `train` or `eval` starts, depending on the mode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `edges: mgp.List[mgp.Edges]` ➡ list of edges to preprocess (that arrive in a stream to Memgraph). If a batch is full, `train` or `eval` starts, depending on the mode.
```
The current wording was ambiguous on who does the preprocessing: TGN or Memgraph.

#### Usage:

There are a few options here:

The most convenient one is to create a **[trigger](https://memgraph.com/docs/memgraph/reference-guide/triggers)** so that every
time an edge is added to the graph, the trigger calls the procedure and makes an
update.

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER create_embeddings ON --> CREATE BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL tgn.update(createdEdges) RETURN 1;
```

The second option is to add all the edges and then call the algorithm with them:

```cypher
MATCH (n)-[e]->(m)
WITH COLLECT(e) as edges
CALL tgn.update(edges) RETURN 1;
```

### `get()`
Get calculated embeddings for each vertex.
#### Output:

> * `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ vertex in Memgraph database

Reviewer 2: Adding "node" for consistency
```suggestion
* `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ vertex (node) in Memgraph
```

* `embedding: mgp.List[float]` ➡ low-dimensional representation of node in form of graph embedding

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `set_eval()`
Change **TGN* mode to `eval`.
#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.set_eval() YIELD *;
```

### `get_results()`

> This method will return for `results` for every batch you did `train` or `eval` on, as well as `average_precision`, and `batch_process_time`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This method will return `results` for every batch you did `train` or `eval` on, as well as `average_precision`, and `batch_process_time`. 
```

Epoch count starts from 1.
#### Output:

* `epoch_num:mgp.Number` ➡ number of `train` or `eval` epochs
* `batch_num:mgp.Number` ➡ number of batches per `train` or `eval` epoch
* `batch_process_time:mgp.Number` ➡ time needed to process batch 
* `average_precision:mgp.Number` ➡ mean average precision on the current batch
* `batch_type:str` ➡ whether we performed `train` or `eval` on the batch

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get_results() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `train_and_eval(num_epochs)`
The purpose of this method is to do additional training rounds on `train` edges and `eval` on evaluation edges.
#### Input:

> * `num_epochs: int` ➡ perform additional epoch training and evaluation **after** the stream is done

Reviewer 2: I would move the "after the stream is done" part to the sentence just above **Input**.

update.

```cypher
CREATE TRIGGER create_embeddings ON --> CREATE BEFORE COMMIT
EXECUTE CALL tgn.update(createdEdges) RETURN 1;
```

The second option is to add all the edges and then call the algorithm with them:

```cypher
MATCH (n)-[e]->(m)
WITH COLLECT(e) as edges
CALL tgn.update(edges) RETURN 1;
```

### `get()`
Get calculated embeddings for each vertex.
#### Output:

* `node: mgp.Vertex` ➡ vertex in Memgraph database
* `embedding: mgp.List[float]` ➡ low-dimensional representation of node in form of graph embedding

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `set_eval()`
Change **TGN* mode to `eval`.
#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.set_eval() YIELD *;
```

### `get_results()`
This method will return for `results` for every batch you did `train` or `eval` on, as well as `accuracy`, and `batch_process_time`. 
Epoch count starts from 1.
#### Output:

* `epoch_num:mgp.Number` ➡ number of `train` or `eval` epochs
* `batch_num:mgp.Number` ➡ number of batches per `train` or `eval` epoch
* `batch_process_time:mgp.Number` ➡ time needed to process batch 
* `accuracy:mgp.Number` ➡ mean average precision on current batch

> * `accuracy_type:str` ➡ type of MAP performed, "train" or "eval"

Reviewer 2: Format `train` and `eval` as code for consistency

#### Usage:

```cypher
CALL tgn.get_results() YIELD * RETURN *;
```

### `train_and_eval(num_epochs)`
The purpose of this method is to do additional training rounds on `train` edges and `eval` on evaluation edges.
#### Input:

> * `num_epochs: int` ➡ perform additional epoch training and evaluation **after** stream is done

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `num_epochs: int` ➡ perform additional epoch training and evaluation **after** the stream is done
```

#### Output:

> * `epoch_num: int` ➡ overall epoch of batch for which performance statistics will be returned
> * `batch_num: int` ➡ batch inside of epoch for which performance statistics will be returned

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* `epoch_num: int` ➡ the epoch of the batch for which performance statistics will be returned
* `batch_num: int` ➡ the number of the batch for which performance statistics will be returned
```

* `batch_process_time: float` ➡ processing time in seconds for a batch 
* `accuracy: int` ➡ **mean average precision** 

> * `accuracy_type: int` ➡ **mean average precision** type, "train" or "eval"

Reviewer 2: Format `train` and `eval` as code for consistency
